---
title: Expectations
sidebar: handbook_sidebar
permalink: handbook_expectations.html
folder: handbook
---

## Essentials

Everyone in the lab is expected to maintain a safe and respectful
working environment and to carry out and report their work with
integrity.

### Safety

I expect everyone to plan and conduct their experiments safely, and to
protect your own health and well-being as well as that of your
colleagues and the community. You should understand the risks inherent
in your research work, and the measures we take to mitigate those
risks. You should also understand and follow the applicable safety
policies. If you have questions about safety, such as the proper
operation of equipment or use and disposal of reagents, please discuss
these with Nick. You should also talk with Nick about any special
safety concerns related to medical conditions; Nick will keep this
information private.

### Respect

I expect everyone to be supportive and respectful of each other, and
behave professionally in all of your scientific interactions inside
the lab and beyond. Certainly, the lab must be free of harassment
(including sexual harrassment) and discrimination, and [university
policies](https://ophd.berkeley.edu/policies-and-procedures) provide a
minimal standard that everyone must maintain. I expect that you'll go
beyond this to create an accepting and inclusive environment in the
lab. If you see or experience behavior that makes you uncomfortable or
violates these policies, please let Nick know. If you prefer, you can
contact other faculty members, such as members of your thesis
committee or department officers such as the Equity Advisor
(currently, David Weisblat). The university also provides confidential
resources, including the [student and postdoctoral ombuds
office](https://sa.berkeley.edu/ombuds), the [staff ombuds
office](https://staffombuds.berkeley.edu/home), and the [PATH to Care
Center](care.berkeley.edu).

### Scientific Integrity

I expect everyone to carry out their research with integrity. Everyone
is expected to understand and follow policies on the [responsible
conduct of
research](https://vcresearch.berkeley.edu/research-policies/research-compliance/research-misconduct). Fabrication,
falsification, and plagiarism are unacceptable. I expect that we will
all strive to present our work clearly and honestly, and I encourage
you to discuss any questions or concerns about what is acceptable in
analyzing your data, and how to describe your analysis clearly.

I also expect anyone using animals in research to minimize the number
of animals involved and any pain or suffering inflicted. Everyone must
comply with [university policies for animals in
research](https://acuc.berkeley.edu/guidelines.html), which require
all experiments to follow protocols approved by the [Animal Care and
Use Committee](https://acuc.berkeley.edu). 

## Roles in the Lab