---
title: Communicating
sidebar: handbook_sidebar
permalink: handbook_communicating.html
folder: handbook
---

## Talking Online

### Slack

We use the Slack as the primary means to communicate within the
lab. Full-time lab members should install the Slack app on their
computers and/or phones, and other lab affiliates should check slack
regularly. While it's important to pay attention to personal messages
and relevant channels on Slack, there's no expectation for constant
availability; you don't need to check Slack during evenings, weekends,
or vacations. Likewise, while Slack is a great way to reach Nick as
well as your other colleagues in the lab, you shouldn't rely on it as
the only way to reach someone in an emergency.

We're currently using a free Slack workspace and so we don't have
access to older message, although these messages are still saved
indefinitely by Slack.

### Email

We have a lab email list (berkeley@ingolia-lab.org) for lab-wide
announcements. Also, you'll receive important communication from the
University by email, including announcements about valuable
opportunities and administrative information requiring your
attention. You're responsible for reading your Berkeley email and
responding to it as needed.

### Calendar

We have a shared Google Calendar that we update with lab meetings,
seminars of interest, and lab-related social events. Anyone in the lab
should be able to add events to the calendar. The shared calendar is
meant to help keep track of our schedule, but it isn't used to
announce an event. Use Slack or email to let people know about
something, and then add it to the calendar as a reminder.

Nick also uses the calendar to let people know when he's traveling.

We have other shared calendars that we use to keep track of specific
equipment as well.

## Meetings

### Group meetings

We have a weekly group meeting where lab members give a slide
presentation on their project. Currently, lab meeting is held on
Thursdays from 1:30pm to 3:00pm in 430 Barker.

Full-time lab members are expected to present at group meeting on a
regular rotation that Nick maintains in a shared Google Sheet. We will
also set aside group meetings for presentations by rotation students,
summer students, visitors, and others. If you have a conflict with
your scheduled lab meeting, talk with other lab members about trading
for a diferent date (it's often easiest to trade with someone
scheduled to present a week or two earlier than you). If you can't
resolve your conflict by trading, talk with Nick.

Full-time lab members are expected to attend group meeting except when
they are on vacation and to set aside 1.5 hours for the presentation
and discussion. Tell Nick about any recurring conflicts, such as
courses or teaching, and we will change the lab meeting to ensure that
everyone can attend. Part-time lab members are encouraged to attend,
although this is not always feasible for them.

Active discussion in group meeting, including questions and
suggestions, is strongly encouraged. Group meeting is usually the
first forum where new results and ideas are discussed, and feedback
can clarify both thinking and presentation.

Your collaborators are welcome and encouraged to attend your group
meeting presentations. Before inviting a guest outside the Ingolia and
Lareau labs to attend a group meeting presentation, you should ask the
presenter whether they're comfortable with the guest's
attendance. Nick is happy to discuss any concerns that arise about
possible group meeting guests.

We'll take time at the beginning of lab meeting for brief
announcements of general interest. Slack is often a better forum for
longer discussions.

### Journal club

We have a weekly journal club, currently organzied by Sam. Each week,
one lab member picks a paper that is announced in advance on Slack and
presents data from that paper, along with background and
discussion. Currently, journal club is held on Tuesday from noon to
1:00pm in 430 Barker.

Full-time lab members are expected to participate in the journal club,
by joining the rotation to present and by attending journal club
regularly. Let the organizer know if you have a standing conflict so
we can try to find a time that works for everyone. Part-time lab
members are encouraged to attend and present, although this isn't
always feasible for them.

### One-on-one meetings

Nick will schedule a regular, hour-long one-on-one meeting for
full-time lab members. These meetings are typically once a week,
although joint students / post-docs may have bi-weekly meetings. Nick
will also schedule regular meetings with part-time lab members, though
these meetings may be shorter or less frequent.  Nick may need to
reschedule or cancel this meeting due to other commitments, and you
should feel free to do the same when you have a schedule conflict. You
shouldn't cancel the meeting simply because you don't [think that you]
have anything to discuss, though. Even a brief check-in on work in
progress can be valuable for you and for Nick.

One-on-one meetings are intended for you and Nick to discuss your
progress, think together about challenges in your work, and make
future plans. In this meeting, you may share raw data, troubleshoot
technical problems, plan future experiments, or look together at
figures and manuscript drafts. It's generally good to prepare for
these meetings by organizing the data you want to discuss and
preparing an agenda -- Nick has seen a variety of ways to do this
effectively, ranging from hand-written bullet lists to slide decks.

### Open door / drop-in

You should feel free to stop by Nick's office for advice and
discussion any time his door is open and he's not meeting with someone
else. Nick will almost always have time to talk, though he may need to
finish writing down a thought, or he may have just a few minutes.

You're also welcome to Slack (or email) about finding a mutually
convenient time to talk in addition to regularly scheduled one-on-one
meetings.
